                         README_FOR_WINDOWS
                           April 30, 2020

The latest version of the usfsim package has been released.

It is version 1.0.25. It is available on all of the Linux systems. There may be
later versions available, this document is not always kept up to date.

There is a Windows version.  All of the Windows files are in a .zip file
that is named based on the version. For this release, the file is:

usfsim_win_1.0.25.zip

On the lab's local system, the .zip file is located in /usr/local/share/usfsim.
On the bolser systems, a copy is in /datastore1/home/public. 

The file contains:

1. Executables

   simbuild.exe
   simrun.exe
   simviewer.exe
   simmsg.exe

2. Default values for creating models. You can edit these to be whatever you
   want. These are optional and defaults will be provided if they are not found
   in the current working directory.

   def_cell.sned
   def_fiber.sned
   def_syn.sned
   globals.sned

3. An example model

   example_modelWIN.snd  
   example_modelWIN.ols

4. Bitmaps you can use as icons. These are also include in the executables, so 
   you do not really need these.

   simbuild.png
   simviewer.png

5. Documents

   README  
   README_FOR_WINDOWS (this document)
   ReleaseNotes.pdf
   sim.pdf
   usfsim.pdf

The usesim.pdf is an update of the Users Manaual.

To get started on a Windows PC, make a working directory somewhere in your work
area, get a copy of the zip file and unzip the zip file into this directory.
Some people have unzipped it to the desktop, but you don't want to do this. It
can create a few thousand wave files, and they all wind up on your desktop.
Really, make a working directory, even it if in something like C:\usfsim.

Create a desktop shortcuts to simbuild.exe and simviewer.exe and make the working
directory be the "Start in:" directory.

Start simbuild.exe.

If you want to have several working directories, you may want to set your PATH
environment variable to include the path to the directory where you unzipped
the zip file. The methods to do this vary in different versions of Windows. If
you do not know how to do this, there are many web pages that explain how to do
this. Once the executables are on your PATH, you can run it from any directory.


Simulate away!


                            THE FINE PRINT

Some of what follows is out of date. You can safely ignore this (mostly.)

The biggest difference between the Linux and Windows versions is the format of
the text files.

Linux lines end in a single value, 10, or hex 0x0a.
Windows lines end in two values, 13 10, or hex 0x0d 0x0a.

While I have tried to make this transparent to all versions of the programs, I
have not tested this extensively, so some of the code may still have issues
with the foreign format. If there are compatibilty issues, there are Linux
utilities that will convert one format to the other, such as dos2unix and
unix2dos on Linux systems. A handy editor for Windows can be found at:

https://notepad-plus-plus.org

There is an Edit -> EOL Conversion selection that will convert between formats.

If you want to use models that were created on a Linux system (and at this
point that would be ALL of them), do this:

1. Copy .snd and .ols files to your Windows machine.
2. Run simbuild.exe and load the .snd file.
3. Save it to a different name. I have been adding "WIN" somewhere in the new file name.
4. A new .ols file will be created for you with the same base name.
5. Load the new WIN file.

If you copy a new model you made on a Windows machine to a Linux machine, load
the WIN file and save it out without the WIN in the name.  The simbuild program
can read both formats and will write files in the local format.

The bdt and edt files that the Windows version create are an exception. I
created these a binary files and force each line to end with only 0x0a. Since
the only tools that use these are Linux ones, I did not see the need for
Windows versions of the files. Scope, in particular, really did not like the
WIN text format.

I'm sure there will be problems. Let me know about them.

